Additional Resources                                                       domestika.org




                       A course by Mónica Vega


                       HOW TO
                       DRAW LIGHT
                       This document contains tips on how to draw light.
                       Remember that the most important thing is to observe
                       the light sources, how they emit light and how they react
                       on surfaces.
Additional Resources – Mónica Vega                                                  domestika.org




Correlated Color
Temperature (CCT)
To start, you'll define the color to use for each correlated color temperature.

You can think of this as how cold or warm the light looks from the source
you're drawing. In my case I'm depicting the light with these four colors:

Blue. Very cold light. For example, the light sources installed in a convenience
store or fast-food restaurant.

White. Neutral or daylight tone. For example, the lighting traditionally used in
offices.

Yellow. Warm light. For example, the light used in restaurants or places for rest
and relaxation.

Amber. Warm light. This, for example, represents candlelight or firelight.
Additional Resources – Mónica Vega                                                     domestika.org




Shape of the Light Fixture
To depict an elevated light fixture, you need to pay attention to how the light
fixture or lamp looks physically.


Is it attached directly to the ceiling?
Is the lamp exposed?
Does the light fixture have a diffuser? If so, how opaque is it?
How does that light fixture emit light? In all directions, or in just one direction?


Take a look and draw it.
Additional Resources – Mónica Vega                                                   domestika.org




Installing the Light Fixture
In this image the upper drawing is the light fixture depicted in the scene, but it
doesn’t show us how it's installed. To clarify that, you can draw in detail or a
cross-section that depicts it.

In the middle drawing, we're saying that the light fixture will be embedded in
the slab or ceiling, and the lower drawing shows that the light fixture is
superimposed.

With these kinds of drawings you can make aesthetic decisions with your
clients.
Additional Resources – Mónica Vega                                                domestika.org




Beam of Light
It’s also important to convey what the beam of light that the light fixture
emits is like.

In the upper part of the drawing you can see the light beam is depicted in
the scene.

In the middle part we’ve depicted the light fixture. In this case all the light
fixtures are the same, because many light fixtures have different versions that
emit different light beams.

In the bottom part you can see the projected light. As you can see, the one
on the far left is the most narrow, and the one on the far right covers the
most area.
Additional Resources – Mónica Vega                 domestika.org




Direction
Last, you need to add the direction of the beam
of light.

If the light source is directional, you need to
portray in a drawing where you want the light
fixture to emit light.

These drawings help the installation specialists
install and direct the light fixture correctly.
Additional Resources – Mónica Vega                            domestika.org




                                     Examples of Conceptual
                                        Drawings to the
                                        Finished Project
Additional Resources – Mónica Vega                    domestika.org




Lighting from
the Register
In the upper image we explain to the client how
the light will fall on the planter and on the
benches.

Note the linear gradient from up above to
down below. This explains that the light source
is installed in the ceiling. The characteristics of
the light source are:


Warm, linear light source
Architectural light fixture
Direct light
Symmetrical beam of light


The photograph down below shows the
finished project.
Additional Resources – Mónica Vega                  domestika.org




Lighting from
the Register
In a cross-section like the drawing up above
you can better explain how the light fixture will
be installed.

Here you can also see that the beam of light is
asymmetrical. In this case, this is done by
redirecting the light from the register.

You can see how the light from the register
doesn’t interfere with the omnidirectional light
fixture in the background.

The photograph down below shows the
finished project.
Additional Resources – Mónica Vega              domestika.org




Decorative
Light Fixture
In the drawing up above we can see the
intention to install on the wall an
omnidirectional decorative light fixture that
emits a warm light.

The photograph to the right shows the
finished project.
Additional Resources – Mónica Vega                  domestika.org




Detail
With this simple detail, we explain to the client
how the LED strip will be installed to get the
desired effect.

The features of the light source are:


Warm, linear light source
Architectural light fixture
Direct light
Symmetrical beam of light

Remember that the important thing is to make
the elements of the design and the solution
you're offering understood.

The photograph below shows the details of the
finished project.
Additional Resources – Mónica Vega            domestika.org




Lighting with Color
Not all light is white. Sometimes we design
with color details, which we need to depict
as they'll appear at the end.

In the elevation you can see the lamps
that emit the blue light superimposed on
the ceiling.

Meanwhile, the pink light represents a neon
pink lamp embedded in a round window.

The opaque glass of the window diffuses
the neon light.

The image down below shows the
finished project.
